PHP Piscine
Day 00
 Your reference guide is called Google / the Internet /
https://www.php.net / ....

Chapter 3
Exercise

00 : Basics or home

Turn-in directory : ex00/
Files to turn in: basics.html
Allowed functions: n/a

Note: We consider that for all of today’s assignments you have watched
the introduction video to HTML/CSS and that you won’t use a prepackaged answer for the exercises but you will do your best to learn
both HTML and CSS.

We will start with something simple. If you’re struggling too much,
take a break, go home and come back when you are feeling better.

Create a web page that contains the following elements:

A pink background (”Pink ? what’s wrong with pink ?”). Be
cautious, this is not a random color choice.

A page title that contains ”Basics” (we’re talking about the one
visible on the browser tab).

A big title in white, centered, that contains at least one
accent (e.g.: é, í).

Two images side by side representing online shops.

Under each image, a link to the corresponding website.

Under the links, a horizontal line that separates the page (no
matter the size of the window).

Finally, under this line, aligned on the right side of the page,
in italic and with a monospace font family, the copyright
symbol, your login, and the current year. (”© ol 2014”).

P.S.: this exercise should be consumed with moderation.


Chapter 4
Exercise

01 : Mendeleev

Turn-in directory : ex01/
Files to turn in: mendeleev.html
Allowed functions: n/a

Create a webpage that represents the Mendeleev’s complete periodic
table of the elements (the current version). The constraints are as
follows:

• The page must contain at least one image. Of course, putting an
image of the periodic table doesn’t count, just display one to
make your page prettier!

• You need to add some colours to make everything even more
beautiful!

• Each cell in the periodic table must contain:
◦ The symbol of the element in the middle, in bold and in a
big font size.

◦ The atomic number and the atomic weight of the element in a
smaller font size, respectively in the bottom left and
bottom right hand corners.

• You must be able to modify the content of the table directly in
the source code while defending your project.

5

Chapter 5
Exercise

02 : Day of the 42

Turn-in directory : ex02/
Files to turn in: doft.html doft.css resources/
Allowed functions: n/a

Local foreword:

”I feel like I could...

like I could...

like I

could... TAKE ON THE WORLD!!”

Reproduce identically and precisely the web page of the fictional game
”Day of the 42” for which you have an image below and in the resources.
In order to achieve this, you must use all of the images provided in
the resources (no more, no less).
Pay attention to details:

the position of elements, the font sizes

and families, the colours, etc.

In addition to the identical reproduction of the page, you must implement the following :

• The reload.png image, which title and alt must be ”Start from the
beginning” should be a link and redirect to www.disney.com

• The close.gif image, which <title> and alt must be ”Disconnect”
should be a link and redirect to www.relaischateaux.com

• The five images on the left side of the page must be titled (and
”alted”) respectively ”Move”, ”Take”, ”Look”, ”Use” and ”Speak”.

• In the central image, you must create a clickable area (a link)
on the middle chair of the first row (the second one from the
right) that should redirect to www.ikea.com

• In the central image, you must create a clickable area (a link)
on the first screen of the first row (first one from the right)
that should redirect to www.apple.com

• The three elements on the right must have a title and an alt of
your choosing.

6

Figure 5.1: ”Day of the 42” page

7

Chapter 6
Exercise

03 : The shrunk agent

Turn-in directory : ex03/
Files to turn in: responsive.html responsive.css
Allowed functions: n/a

Like most Russians at some paranoid time in History, Dimitri Mendeleev
was an agent. If he wasn’t at the origin of the former important press
outfit (TASS agency), however, he started to shrink in time too. His
periodic table did as well. Copy your periodic table from the first
exercise and make it responsive to the browser resizing. The periodic
table must shrink, the text as well.
Do as you wish but do not listen to the Javascript pros that will say
that it can’t be done without it. Stay on CSS and wait for day09 for
the JS.

8

Chapter 7
Exercise

04 : SNCF* Sandwich

Turn-in directory : ex04/
Files to turn in: menu.html menu.css
Allowed functions: n/a

A train leaves Paris for Lyon on September 12th 1985, the day of a
lunar eclipse. It rides at 216 km/h, the wind blows S/SE at a factor
5, and the temperature outside the train is 13°C, and 22°C inside. The
sky is cloudy. Another train leaves Lyon for Paris, on the same day
at 23:00. It is riding at 224km/h.
This is actually not the topic of this exercise, almost.

The objective of this assignment is to create menus, plenty of them
to present what the train restaurant has to offer.

In a navigation, you must implement a multitude of dropdown menus with
a minimum of:

• Three dropdown menus, each containing a minimum of 4 clickable
items.

• One dropdown menu that contains 4 clickable items and another
dropdown menu in which there will also be at least 4 clickable
items.

• One dropdown menu (with at least 4 items) which also contains a
dropdown menu (with at least 4 items) which itself contains a
dropdown menu in which there will be at least 4 clickable items.
(We heard you liked dropdown menus).
The layout of your dropdown menus and the opening direction of their
content is at your discretion, as long as it stays coherent! Although
aesthetics are subjective, try your best to make it nice!

You are only allowed to use HTML and CSS (no Javascript or other
shenanigans).

*(French National Railway Company)
9

Chapter 8
Exercise

05 : SCUMM

Turn-in directory : ex05/
Files to turn in: scumm.html *
Allowed functions: n/a

Ok, so you’ve done a pretty interface for your game ”Day of the 42”,
but it would be great to be able to actually play it. Create a ministory and make it playable.
You cannot use a web server, your game must be playable with only HTML
and CSS files. As usual, Javascript is not allowed.

We consider a game playable if it has the following features:

• The player can navigate to different places and the central
image changes when the location changes.

• The player can combine the actions in the left banner with
interactive areas on the central image.

• The player can get information on an item when using the ”Look”
action.

• The player can take an item using the ”Take” action and it will
be added in the inventory, in the right banner.

• The player can use the items from the inventory using the ”Use”
action.

• The player can interact with a NPC using the ”Speak” action.
You will have extra points if you implement more features!

The submission file will be the entrypoint of your game. You can add
all the additional files that you need. Be creative!

10


